Interstellar is perhaps the best film about space travel since 2001: A Space Odyssey. In fact, you even consider
Interstellar to be 2001 taken to the next level. Both films are about traveling to parts of space that have never been
explored by mankind. Also, both films have thought-provoking concepts, stunning visual effects, and even brief moments
of human peril. I'll even throw in another science-fiction movie for comparison: the 1997 movie Contact. That film and
Interstellar both present the audience with a suspenseful mystery where we constantly wonder what we will eventually
see. The initial setting of Interstellar would make you think that it's not science-fiction. It's a rural farm in an
unnamed part of America. In fact, the trailer for Interstellar that I saw focused a lot on these scenes on Earth, which
makes sense because the space travel that takes place afterwards is something that we should just discover for ourselves
once we actually see the movie. Anyway, on this farm, the main character is an engineer and farmer named Cooper, played
by Matthew McConaughey (who also co-starred in Contact). He is actually one of many farmers around, because Earth is now
decimated by extreme famine. As an official in the local school system explains, the world has not run out of
technologies like television sets, but has run out of food, a resource necessary for life. But one thing bothers Cooper.
Given the priority of saving Earth, space travel is seen as a complete waste of time. Yet, Cooper wonders what is beyond
the Earth's atmosphere. It is not long before Cooper observes a strange phenomenon with dust in a room in his house,
which puts him on a path that will eventually lead him to a top-secret space program sending astronauts to a wormhole
near Saturn. The purpose of the mission is to discover habitable planets. From there, either the people of Earth can be
saved and transported to the new world, or a new human colony will be formed on the new planet. For Cooper, this is a
tough choice, because he does not want to leave behind his daughter Murph, his son Tom, and his father.